documentation-notes/documentation-notes.rst, before:

============================
How to Prepare Documentation
============================

*David Antos*

May 2018

Where
=====

ELIXIR Data Transfer documentation is published on
http://elixir-data-transfer-docs.readthedocs.io/. Its source codes are kept
on https://github.com/david-antos/elixir-data-transfer-docs. When changes
are pushed to *GitHub*, *Read the Docs* published version gets regenerated
automatically.

How
===

reStructuredText
----------------

The documentation is preferrably written in reStructuredText format. Using
Markdown is also possible, but it is much less standardised. For good
reasons to prefer reStructuredText, see
http://ericholscher.com/blog/2016/mar/15/dont-use-markdown-for-technical-docs/.

If you're new to reStructuredText, there are some docs for you:
  - `reStructuredText Primer <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickstart.html>`_ is a good start
  - `Quick reStructuredText <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html>`_ for quick reference
  - `Full Specification <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html>`_ is good when strange things happen
  - `reStructuredText and Sphinx Cheat Sheet <https://thomas-cokelaer.info/tutorials/sphinx/rest_syntax.html>`_ is a good and concise reference

Please note that reStructuredText is extremely picky to text
indentation. If you run into trouble, check your indentation first.

Necessary local software
------------------------

You'll need
  - git
  - any text editor
  - (optional but recommended) `Sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/>`_ will
    allow you to generate the documentation locally

Writing new documentation/article
---------------------------------

Kindly add a folder to the repository for a new article to keep it neat.
Write the documentation (using ``.rst`` file suffix is recommended). Make a
link to the documentation from ``index.rst``.

If you have Sphinx installed, you can prepare local preview of your docs.
Just run

::

  make html

(or a windows bat equivalent) in the main folder and point your browser to
``_build/html/index.html``. Or any other format you like.

Please note: to keep things simple, we use built-in Sphinx style for local
html output. It differs from the style on the *Read the Docs* site. The reason
is not to complicate things beyond necessary, you'd have to install the
*Read the Docs* style locally.


Who
===

For write access to the *GitHub* repo, requirements to add plugins (keep it
reasonable, please), change the config of *Read the Docs*, please contact
David Antos (david (dot) antos (atsymbol) cesnet.cz).

Commit message:

Tips and tricks section added

documentation-notes/documentation-notes.rst, after:

============================
How to Prepare Documentation
============================

*David Antos*

May 2018

Where
=====

ELIXIR Data Transfer documentation is published on
http://elixir-data-transfer-docs.readthedocs.io/. Its source codes are kept
on https://github.com/david-antos/elixir-data-transfer-docs. When changes
are pushed to *GitHub*, *Read the Docs* published version gets regenerated
automatically.

How
===

reStructuredText
----------------

The documentation is preferrably written in reStructuredText format. Using
Markdown is also possible, but it is much less standardised. For good
reasons to prefer reStructuredText, see
http://ericholscher.com/blog/2016/mar/15/dont-use-markdown-for-technical-docs/.

If you're new to reStructuredText, there are some docs for you:
  - `reStructuredText Primer <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickstart.html>`_ is a good start
  - `Quick reStructuredText <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html>`_ for quick reference
  - `Full Specification <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html>`_ is good when strange things happen
  - `reStructuredText and Sphinx Cheat Sheet <https://thomas-cokelaer.info/tutorials/sphinx/rest_syntax.html>`_ is a good and concise reference

Please note that reStructuredText is extremely picky to text
indentation. If you run into trouble, check your indentation first.

Necessary local software
------------------------

You'll need
  - git
  - any text editor
  - (optional but recommended) `Sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/>`_ will
    allow you to generate the documentation locally

Writing new documentation/article
---------------------------------

Kindly add a folder to the repository for a new article to keep it neat.
Write the documentation (using ``.rst`` file suffix is recommended). Make a
link to the documentation from ``index.rst``.

If you have Sphinx installed, you can prepare local preview of your docs.
Just run

::

  make html

(or a windows bat equivalent) in the main folder and point your browser to
``_build/html/index.html``. Or any other format you like.

Please note: to keep things simple, we use built-in Sphinx style for local
html output. It differs from the style on the *Read the Docs* site. The reason
is not to complicate things beyond necessary, you'd have to install the
*Read the Docs* style locally.


Tips and tricks
===============

If you're unlucky enough to have your documentation in Google Docs or any
other format (even lacking proper logical markup), you may try `Pandoc
<http://pandoc.org/>`_ to convert it.

Initial conversion of this group's documentation in Google Docs has been
produced by exporting to ``docx``, converting according to `Mpei's Blog
<https://peintinger.com/?p=365>`_ and heavily edited by hand.


Contacts
========

For write access to the *GitHub* repo, requirements to add plugins (keep it
reasonable, please), change the config of *Read the Docs*, please contact
David Antos (david (dot) antos (atsymbol) cesnet.cz).
